this is a shower drain and sometimes
these have a tendency to start draining
slow so I'm going to show you a trick
that you may not know about on how to
unclog this this little device we're
going to use to try to pull out the hair
so I'm going to show a little close-up
of it and it's got a spring its spring
loaded and there's a handle on one side
you pull back on it and there's a little
thing at the end with four little tongs
on it that that Springs out and we're
gonna use that and I'm going to show you
how to do that first thing we got to do
is take these screws up so I'm gonna
pull this screen cover out of there now
sometimes the screws are covered with
grout silicone whatever you got to kind
of clean those out because you don't
want to strip these screws off you want
to make sure you can get those out make
sure when you unscrew this you don't
drop these screws down the hole once you
have those screws out of there put the
screws off to the side you don't want to
eat your clothes here you don't want to
drop them down there then you gotta go
to store get another skirt now pry this
up carefully with the screwdriver you
may have to work on it depending how how
old your your shower is but you want to
pull that up sometimes you got hair in
the back side of this thats hanging down
it's causing your drain is to slowly
drain so clean all that out put that off
to the side sometimes you may get lucky
pour some Drano down there or something
like that and then it's set for a couple
days and run hot water down through
there and then that may do the trick but
if not I'm going to show you my little
tool
you
lots of times you've got things stuck
down in there so you can take the long
tool and you can push it down in there
and just reach down in there and this
will go all the way down to your trap so
if your trap is less than 2 feet from
your floor this will work so so try it
out first push it in there grab whatever
it is you can grab and pull it back out
because believe me sometimes this will
do the trick I know the reason why I
know is I crawled underneath the house
one time cut the pipe out replace the
entire thing and found out that it was
hair sticking down off of these off of
these screws and I couldn't reach
everything down there at all it all
built up and Reno wasn't doing the trick
how I had this little tool that I
figured out later I could have just
reach down in there and pulled the stuff
up so now anytime I drain clogs I know
I'm gonna try this first at this point
if you want to clean this all out now's
your chance you can scrape this down
wipe it down clean it off cleaner
another edge here before you put your
screws in and have it ready and we're
going to screw this back down make sure
you have this lined up in some cases you
may have to put it back in exactly how
you found it before so make sure you
have it lined up before you put your
screws in at this point you're ready to
put your screws back in put them in and
put them in carefully don't drop them
down the hole once you have your screws
on there go ahead and tighten them down
but just make them snug you don't have
to make them overly tight you don't want
to strip the heads off these screws so
sometimes they're ready to be stripped
anyways because they're waterlogged and
that kind of thing so just snug them
down and you're not this tool also comes
in handy to pick up things behind your
desk or refrigerator or anything like
that really nice little tool to have